Employer Applications FAQ's

Are wage increases for employees required to apply for TechCred?
The wage increases for employees are optional, but are used as part of the scoring criteria. Applicants are encouraged to pledge wage increases for employees earning credentials to match the new skills they have gained and their increased productivity.


Can one employee receive multiple credentials through TechCred?
Yes! For application periods beginning June 2020 and later, employers may receive reimbursement for multiple eligible credentials earned by a single employee.


Can an employer submit an application for a credentialing program that an employee has already started?
Yes, training must start on or after the first day of the month immediately following the last application period, and must be completed within 12 months (the effective date and the end date of the agreement).


Can employers utilize TechCred for individuals they have not hired, but are considering for hire?
TechCred is a great way for employers to grow their tech workforce. Employers can request funding for positions they plan to fill in the near future. When requesting reimbursement for credentials earned by employees who were not yet hired at the time of application, employers must provide identifying information for the employee (name, last 4 digits of SSN, and DOB) and prove that they were hired.


How do employers get started?
Getting started with the TechCred program is simple.

Identify skills needed and employees
Partner with a credential provider
Apply online
Enroll employees in the training program
Verify credential completion
Receive reimbursement

How will employer applications be scored?
The following criteria will be used to evaluate employer applications:

Pledged average wage increase in relation to credential cost
Level of economic distress in employer’s region
Amount of employer contribution towards the cost of credential
Applications submitted within a given enrollment period will be judged competitively; awards will not be made on a first-come, first-served basis.


If a training provider is applying to the TechCred program to upskill their current or prospective employees, may the training be provided by the same organization?
TechCred is an excellent opportunity for colleges, school districts and other training providers to upskill their faculty and staff with in-demand technology skills. Beginning in the April 2021 round, training providers are not eligible to receive reimbursement for employees trained in-house. If a training provider wishes to utilize TechCred to upskill their employees, they must use an outside training provider. 


What does "Pledged wage increase in relation to credential cost" mean in the application scoring criteria?
Employers are encouraged to pledge wage increases for the employees earning credentials to match the new skills they have gained and their increased productivity. For example, if an employer pledges a 2% average raise for employees earning a credential that costs $2,000 and another applicant pledges a 5% average raise for the same credential, the applicant who pledged 5% will be scored higher.


What information do employers need to submit in the application about current or prospective employees?
To allow for maximum flexibility, employers do not need to identify specific employees in the application for funding. Instead, employees will identify:

Number of incumbent employees who will earn the credential (employees currently on your payroll)
Average current hourly wage
Average expected wage after credential earned
Number of prospective employees who will earn the credential (employees to be hired)
Average wage individuals would have earned without the credential
Average expected wage after credential earned

What types of employers can apply?
No matter what industry you work in, technology is having an impact on the future of your business and the nature of your work. Any Ohio registered company may apply to support their current and prospective Ohio resident employees for technology-focused credentials.


When should employers apply?
TechCred is a competitive, merit-based program. Employers are encouraged to submit applications in each funding round. Applications are not approved on a first come, first served basis. Demand will determine the number and frequency of future enrollment rounds. 